= Social Stream Base

Social Stream Base provides the basic functionality for
{Social Stream}[http://social-stream.dit.upm.es/], the core for building social
network websites. The features of this gem are limited, for a complete social
network environment see https://github.com/ging/social_stream

== Features

* Social network infraestructure
* Activity streams infraestructure
* Subjects: {User} and {Group}
* Objects: {Post} and {Commment}
* Private messages and notifications, by {Mailboxer}[https://github.com/ging/mailboxer]
* Avatars, by {Avatars For Rails}[https://github.com/ging/avatars_for_rails]

= Installation

This will install Social Stream basic functionalities. For a complete social network
platform see {Social Stream}[https://github.com/ging/social_stream]

Add to your Gemfile:

  gem 'social_stream-base'

and run:

  bundle update

Then:

  rails generate social_stream:base:install

This will generate the following:
* A jquery:install generation for jQuery support
* A devise:install generation for authentication support
* An initializer file with configuration for Social Stream.
* A configuration file for defining custom Social Stream relations. You can define your application default relations at <tt>config/relations.yml</tt>
* A new application layout
* A migration providing the database schema

Do not forget to migrate your database

  rake db:migrate

== Actors and Activity Objects

{Social Stream Base}[https://github.com/ging/social_stream/tree/master/base] relies in
Devise[https://github.com/plataformatec/devise].
You have authenticated users support in your application by default.

Besides, there is another kind of actor: groups. If you want other type of actor
(like organizations or social events) you must include an <tt>actor_id</tt> column in
the new actor migration. Then add it to <tt>config/initializers/social_stream.rb</tt>

There is also support for two types of basic activity objects: posts and comments.
You can create other types, like photos, bookmarks or videos, but you must do the same: 
add a <tt>activity_object_id</tt> column in the migration and include it in the
initializer.

= Documentation

{Social Stream Base documentation is available at rdoc.info}[http://rubydoc.info/gems/social_stream/frames]

= Discussion

We are reaching beta phase of development.
Feel free to add an issue or send a message at github[https://github.com/ging/social_stream].
